# The Rise of AI Tools (ChatGPT, Copilot, Cursor AI, DeepSeek e.t.c)

There is a rise in HYPE in AI tools.

In webdevelopment, there is a place for this tools too.

What does this mean for the future?

- AI can write code snippets for you.
- It can explain code to you.
- You can also chat with your code base.

It works well and sometimes not so well.

- You need to understand the problem yourself.
  Dont use an AI tool when you dont know exactly what to solve.

### Before using an AI assistant:

1. Make sure you know how to code yourself. Fundamental programming skills are important.

2. You should be able to solve problems on your own.

3. You should have a good critical thinking with dealing with an AI generated code.

The code may contain bugs that are hard to find, or a code that is not good enough.

You should have the ability to question whether the AI output actually makes sense.

4. You need to have joy and curiousity while coding.

Coding will be boring if you are using AI without knowing what you are doing.

AI might turn you into a terrible programmer or not a programmer at all.

If you rely on AI generated code, you will grow dependent on it. You will be a person who copy pastes code left and right and end up with an app you dont understand. (You cant maintain or fix if anything breaks.)

- Only incorporate AI code if you could have written that code yourself.

### It is fine to use AI in some situations.

Use AI as an assistant, not a replacement.

1. Use it for learning. - Ask it questions.

## Will AI take your Job?

### `NO`

1. There is alot of hype in AI in most industries.

We had web builders like wix and wordpress in the past designed to make web developers obsolete. But that wont happen.

2. Things will change in the future. Some portions of applications will be written by AI.
   However, the developer will always stay in control. You are also the one who will review the code. Developers decide how to impliment AI code in their projects.

3. There are things complex for AI. Thinking hard and being creative. Collaborating with developers and client.

4. AI code is buggy. AI solutions might be worser.

5. The world needs Software that can be used by Humans and created by Humans. To ensure they function as needed.

## AI will help us, not replace AI.

Keep Learning, Build Awsome Softwares.

Software Development logic teaches you how to think.
